Thank you.
who have served our country, both past and present, First National Bank proudly sponsors Veterans of the Valley.
Since 1862, First National has provided local decision-making and accessibility, as well as banking products and services to Brazos Valley citizens.
First National Bank, first always.
Hello and welcome to Veterans of the Valley.
I'm Tom Turbeville.
We're going to stray a little bit out of the box, as they say, today on Veterans of the Valley.
Dr. Philip Alexander is not a veteran, but has indeed found a way, a remarkable way, to express his passion for those who have served through his talent as an artist.
As you can read on his website, he was into pencil drawings in the 80s and the 90s, but then late in the 90s, his medium became computer art.
And what extraordinary art he has produced, and you're going to see a good sampling of it today.
Dr. Philip Alexander has been a physician in the Brazos Valley since 1974, and we welcome him to Veterans of the Valley.
Dr. Alexander, I've been wanting to do this show for a long, long time because I'm such a fan of what you do and your art.
But before we talk about the art, we're going to go in a completely different direction.
I want to talk about of your many skills.
You are an oboist and you have been since you were 13.
You played with the Brazos Valley Symphony for 25 years.
Talk a little bit about sort of that part of your career as a musician.
Well, I went to undergraduate school at a music school in Philadelphia and then taught oboe for a year at Texas Tech.
And then went to medical school and training and moved here.
And you're right, 25 years with the Brazos Valley Symphony Orchestra.
25 good years.
25 long years.
Matter of fact, I saw that even, I guess, in your youth, you played at the Mormon Tabernacle and even played at the White House for President Kennedy.
Is that right?
Yes, played for Kennedy in 1962 and in 1980 was invited to play a recital.
at the Mormon Tabernacle, and their organist, Robert Kundich, accompanied me.
It was a wonderful experience.
Let's talk about your art and tell us how you got into art.
Obviously, you had a talent for it.
You had a knack for it.
You were into pencil drawings initially, and then you got into the computer art.
Sort of talk about how you got into that.
Well, in the 80s, this is all my wife's fault because in the 80s for Christmas, she gave me the book by Betty Edwards called Drawing on the Right Side of the Brain.
And I thought that was cool.
So I tried that and then the pencil career got started.
And then we had an early Macintosh.
And just the fact that you could make bricks and a brick wall and a house and chimneys was sort of cool.
And then erase it all.
And then things evolved and computers were purchased and thrown away and here we are.
I tell you what, we're going to talk about your technique and sort of how you do without giving away the complete secret of how you do it, but a little bit later.
But let's go ahead and take a look at the first group of pictures because we've got about 28, 30 pictures to look at today.
So we're going to get right to it and look at the first 10 pictures.
So let's go ahead and I'm going to let you comment on each one of these.
And let's go ahead and go to the first one right now.
And here we go.
I think we're about to go to the first picture.
It looks just like me.
Yes it does.
Here we go.
Okay.
Talk about this one.
This was a B-29 at sunset.
Yeah.
These are two B-29s and I wanted them really high and the sun is low in the sky.
Great shadows, great reflections.
And again, when I do these things, I'm there.
I can see these before I start doing them.
I know the angles that I want.
and where I am and where the other planes and ships are.
So this is, they've flown a long way.
They have a long way to go.
They're tired.
It's gonna be a great sunset.
All right, let's move on to picture two.
This is a B-36 mission.
Yeah, this is a B-36.
I sort of envisioned that this, and I don't remember what the range on these things were, but they were thousands of miles.
One of our first truly intercontinental bombers.
And I think on the website it says that this was, I had envisioned this just flying over Greenland and then he's making the slow turn to come back to his home base.
large ships, six pusher props, and four turbojets.
Wow.
The detail is just amazing.
I love this one.
This is a B-29 bombing run.
Yeah.
Obviously, unloading its bombs high over wherever you want it to be.
Most of those were used in the Pacific, so I would imagine somewhere over on one of the islands or Japan itself.
Next picture, we're going to come a little bit more modern day than World War II.
This is called Blastoff.
Great title.
Yeah.
And my technical expertise is not terrific on these, but this is how I envision it after most of the atmosphere is gone and all the smoke and plumes and just before the shuttle engines itself take over.
So high up, just a tad of a curvature on the earth.
Exactly.
What detail.
This one's called Cobra Patrol.
And this is the Cobra attack helicopter.
Again, you can see the two pilots inside.
This one was technically difficulty.
I don't mean to be complaining about my problems, but to show motion in...
rotating props for me was difficult and you can see the the yellow tips of the blades and and all of that hardware up around the the central portion of the of the rotor but i tried to give good motion as well as correct i think correct technical detail on the armaments and the the layout of the machine
your eye goes straight to the to the chopper obviously first but then you look at the detail in the background just the subtlety of the mountains the the snow in the valley there on the right side of the mountains that's just uh well and just amazing and i might add these are all done from scratch and and i spent just as much or more time on the clouds and the mountains are
the ones we'll see in a little while, the ocean, as any of the main subjects.
I would think that the star of the print is probably not as difficult as, like I say, the subtlety of some of the things in the background.
Yes.
And some of my favorite, a few of my favorite ones have been ones like this that I'll do just the background of.
Right.
All right, let's move on.
I like this one.
This is Moon 707.
I think the TWA version was the first 707, and this was sort of done with contrails after a famous photograph, and I don't remember who did that photograph, but of a jetliner taken as it was superimposed on a full moon.
And so I tried to do the moon faithfully and the jetliner high up in the sky.
Magnificent.
Go a little bit more modern day.
This is a space doc.
Now you can see the shuttle down in the like five o'clock in that picture docked at the International Space Station.
And I think that's a fairly faithful representation of the space station and all of its antennas and things there.
And that's where the shuttle docks and stars in the background and you're there.
Great, great detail again.
Another sunset picture of F-15s.
Yeah, a couple of F-15s.
I had envisioned these guys over Iraq in the first Gulf War.
And they are either going to or returning from a hard mission.
And I'm sure they're eager to get home, but are also quite aware of what a wonderful view that must be up there.
Indeed.
This one is called a B-17 flak.
We had a veteran on not long ago who talked about his experiences in a B-29 in Europe and avoiding the flak.
And that's what this picture demonstrates right here.
Yeah, this is probably not a wonderful view up there.
And a lot of those guys talk about flak being so thick you can get out and walk on it.
And of course, the flak are exploding shells and shrapnel and steel shreds are very efficient at tearing up planes.
And so I'm sure to them, that was a terrifying thought.
Indeed.
Fortress squadron.
Yeah, this one of my favorites, just a group of B-17s coming back from a mission.
They're still in one piece.
They're probably all
counting their missions, aiming for that magic 25 when they'll be rotated out.
But a great airplane, nice formation.
Fantastic.
Let's take a break.
We're going to see a lot more pictures.
But I know you brought a couple of your works with you.
And if you could hold those up and sort of, we can see it on the camera.
And you're going to talk a little bit about your technique.
Yeah, this is just to show, which one?
That one?
Yeah, there we go.
Okay.
This is just to show how they print up.
And a good friend of mine at Copy Corner works with me on these and I think does a remarkable job.
But as I say, these are all done from scratch.
Most of these I can see before I start them.
I can see here.
I'll hold that one up.
There you go.
Try to get the reflection off of it.
Right, right.
Some people might think you're holding it the wrong way, but you're not.
That's a vertical picture.
Yeah, and I wanted to give the viewer a sense of motion now.
Let me point, that's the B-29, and his number two engine is feathered, and is smoking, and is on fire, and I always thought a couple of Jap Zeroes were going to come in and finish the straggler off, but three P-38s are going to prevent that from happening, and so he can land short in Iwo Jima.
All of these to me have sort of a made up story, but just to give you a sense of height, motion, offset horizon, hopefully a little drama.
I think this one has some drama in it.
Wow.
Now a photograph,
A photograph like that, about how long would that take you to do?
A picture, not a photograph.
A picture, excuse me.
Yes, I'm sorry.
A work like that.
Probably two weeks.
10 days, two weeks, something like that.
And when you get to it, you just sort of do a little bit of work on it each evening?
Yes, as my wife and border collie will allow.
It's nothing you can rush, obviously, because the technique on this obviously calls for a lot of patience, right?
No, and not only do I back up constantly as I go along,
you and the rest of the world never sees the many that did not make it.
That did not make it, that were on the cutting room floor, so to speak.
The great digital pixel heaven is where they are.
Now what we're looking at with each one of these works, this is something that starts off in your mind.
You have an idea of what you're going to do, so it's you, your mind, and a blank computer screen.
Talk a little bit, obviously it would take as many shows to talk completely about the technique and what you do,
how do you how do you how do you draw a star on an airplane how do you how do you create how do you create the moon and its craters how how sort of how do you do that well it's it's it's generally with a mouse and use several graphics and drawing programs but again
easily as much work on the world behind the subject, water, ocean, clouds, as the subjects themselves.
And again, I picture myself there and can see it before I start.
Absolutely fascinating.
Let's go.
We've got some more photographs to look at.
We've looked at 10 already.
We've got a few more.
This is called A. Blinken.
I want to ask you where you came up with the name and talk a little bit about the work.
This F.A.
18 with his tail hooked down, full flaps, rich mixture in the engines is getting ready to land on the U.S.S.A.
Blinken.
I see, there you go.
So that's where Abe Lincoln came from.
That's the carrier that we see in the background.
And up at the top left, the helicopter in case something goes wrong, and the various escort vessels.
Now, I wanna hold that picture because I want people to look at the detail of the water.
In your mind's eye, you decided what kind of chop you wanted in that water.
It was a relatively mild sea for this particular picture.
At least it looks like it from that altitude anyway.
And I mean, each one of those bumps in the water that we take for granted is just a picture of the ocean
That's your work at home.
That's created.
Each shadow, where it turns from dark to light.
That's my ocean.
That's your ocean.
And the fascination that I have with that is just amazing.
And the horizon out there, and you can see the little bit of the...
of the horizon arc out there.
And what I wanted was horizon obviously miles away.
Exactly.
I wanted a sun or cloud reflection.
And then in the foreground, I wanted you to know that that was really deep.
Got something that's not necessarily military, but I was just fascinated by this.
This is Golden Gate Fog.
It's a very apropos title.
Well, and we had seen fog out there and just wanted one from probably an aircraft vantage point and with the fog in the valleys in the background beyond the near mountains and just wanted to try my hand at fog.
Okay.
Talk about this one.
This is one of your at sea warrants.
Yeah.
And to me, this is more ominous when it's dark in the foreground, when you, the viewer, are very low in the ocean.
And this is one of the Soviet Kirov class missile cruisers.
And these things were designed to take out our Navy.
And so this is an ominous vessel and was in the, I think was designed in the early mid 80s.
But they had numerous ones of these things.
But again, I wanted the angle coming at you, the viewer low, just ominous and scary.
Obviously, the fact that this is supposed to happen at dusk or in the evening time or something because of the dark tones and all that, that adds to the ominous flavor of the work.
Right, right.
Now we're getting even more ominous.
This is a Bismarck evening.
And that's the Bismarck with an escorting sub, I think, U119.
But I just envisioned that this was before the battle where the hood was sunk and perhaps on the way to that battle.
And that's middle of the night, moonlit,
a huge ship in the background and the, and the, the sub in the foreground.
Yeah.
This is Corsair's Low.
And these are A7 Corsairs, I think off the Ariskany, off Vietnam.
Again, a similar type, ocean and moon.
I just like moonlight on oceans.
Right.
And I just figured that these guys were either coming in or going out low to avoid radar.
Right, and that depicts that so well.
And the trail following the final fighter there.
USS New Jersey.
Yeah, this is in New Jersey, and I think this is accurately done as far as how the ship looked.
And I always forget how huge those things were.
But again, on a good swell in the ocean, again, a little calmer ocean with moonlight.
All right.
Now we're going to move a little bit more modern day, I guess you can say.
This one is just called Duel.
Yeah, and these are two unnamed vehicles out in the desert, obviously both well armed and very close.
And this is like fast draw.
They're pointing at each other.
Whichever one gets his shot off first is going to live the day.
Fascinating.
Now this, I think, comes from Desert Storm, is that right?
Is that a patriot?
Yes.
That's a box of patriots.
Right.
Yes.
And we remember the Patriot missile.
Black Hawk Patrol, I know this is one of your favorite ones along with the next one that we'll see is the A-10 patrol.
Talk about this one.
Talk about detail in the background.
Yeah, a couple of Black Hawks, maybe over Afghanistan, just bad, rugged territory, no place that you'd wanna go down.
So a dangerous, ominous background with fairly detailed Blackhawks.
Again, rotor motion was technically difficult for me.
Ah, yes.
Here's an A-10 Warthog, the tank buster with the Gatling gun in the front.
Right.
And I pictured this over mountainous areas in Afghanistan looking for bad guy vehicles, bad guy tanks, anything on the ground that those guys need to be aware of.
Again, the star of that one was obviously the airplane.
That was the central focus, but the work was really in the background.
It was.
I mean, that's where the sweat and the tears come from.
And the tears.
A lot of tears.
A lot of your work has to do with military, military air, military sea, and all that.
Not all of it, but...
Talk about your own passion for the military and for honoring the veterans here like we do on this show.
Where did your interest in military art come about?
Well, my father and brother were military and my brother had been career in the Air Force.
And many of these things I've printed and given away to veterans or especially pilots who flew these things and who could tell me more about what I was looking at than what I had just drawn.
And so when one of those guys, and they're dying off rapidly,
You know, when one of them or their family walks out of the office having received one of these things, it makes it all worth it.
But I've always, you know, as a kid, I always wanted to draw planes and never could.
Right, right.
I want to make sure because we're going to see some more pictures, but I don't want to run out of time before.
Can you tell people the website that they can go to to see...
Really everything that you have.
Yeah.
In fact, no, I can't.
You can't.
Okay.
I know a way to find it, though.
It's this long, but if they will Google the three A's, Alexander Aviation Art, it'll come up.
I Googled just Philip Alexander.
That's what I did.
And about the third one down, and there you were.
Oh, really?
It was just that easy.
So get it through Google, folks.
That's how you run your life, right?
Through Google.
That's how you can do it.
or just Alexander Aviation Art.
There it is.
And you can see all the photographs.
And I know that those of you who are watching in high definition this show, you're really getting a great, great idea, taste of this.
But seeing this art in person, it's...
It's unlike anything else.
It really, really is.
And I also want to mention that Dr. Alexander is a supporter of KAMU TV.
I know that each year I have the honor of working on the KAMU auction, which raises money for KAMU, and he always donates a print or two for us to auction off.
So lucky supporters of KAMU have these in their home, and we appreciate that.
We've got a few more pictures to look at, so let's go ahead and take a look at those.
And this one is our number 21.
This is called Tank Attack.
Yeah, and I pictured this in World War II.
Those are an older type tank, probably North Africa, desert campaign, churning up the dust, just ready for the action.
Indeed.
And again, like some of the ships, I put the viewer very low just to be a little more dangerous and ominous and eye-catching.
Okay, let's move on.
Snowy Ambush.
I love this one.
I'd forgotten this one until you pulled it up.
This guy's waiting for somebody to come over the pass.
He's well camouflaged, probably been there a day, and he's got some of these buddies equally well hidden, but he's waiting for it.
I love the snow.
Now this one is one that you
You suggested it to me and I'm so glad you did because this is a depiction of the survivors of the USS Indianapolis.
We've had the honor of having on this show Glenn Morgan who was one of the survivors of the USS Indianapolis and sort of talk about what this is.
Well somebody wanted me to do one that was about the sinking of the Indianapolis and I thought to me one of the best ways to do that was not to show the ship because ships
Ship's gone and they didn't know about it for, what, four days or something.
Right.
And so here are the survivors, the lucky ones that had lifeboats.
And obviously in the foreground, you see the sharks.
And again, that must have been just a terrifying experience and, of course, lost many.
Right.
Many of those who died were from a shark attack.
But if I were to do a portrait of the Indianapolis, to me, this is what a portrait of that ship looks like because of the story.
The desolate Pacific Ocean, the men in the rafts.
And that depicts it very well, according to Glenn Morgan, because there were groups of rafts like that.
There were also groups miles away where there might have been only one raft.
They were scattered out throughout the ocean as they were wading
of four days and five nights to be rescued, and one of their enemies were the sharks, and many were lost to shark attack.
That's a great depiction.
This one is called Tank Burning.
Well, and obviously the victor is the guy over at the left, and with the exploded and now burning tank with the turret falling off the front, that just depicts some of the hell of the war.
Indeed.
A group of your pictures is called Fantasy, and we've got some from that.
And this is one, and this is one of my favorites.
This one's hanging in your office.
It's called Skylight is the short title, or just a stoplight in the sky.
And you can see what this is.
This is a stoplight stopping the bombers and the fighters so that the single wing can come on through.
And I can just imagine the B-52s and F-15s waiting in line
revving their engines while the Piper Cub goes through.
He's got the green light.
He's got the green light that's being held by the hot air balloon.
That is Dr. Alexander's imagination, as is this.
And I like the title of this as much as I like the picture.
I'm going to go ahead and let you tell them the title.
Well, the title is MIG Hinge.
These are, I think those are MIG-25s.
And they found some of those things that were buried during the current Iraq war.
And I thought, just make a little fantasy out of it.
And some were buried and some were disguised as Migham.
Off of Stonehenge.
Okay, you asked me to include these next two works in here, and this is out of your fantasy group, and it's called The Discovery.
So I want to talk about this and the genesis of how all this came about.
Oh, I made up a short story about a tunnel that was found near Uray, Colorado.
And there had been an old atomic nuclear weapons storage facility there.
This is all made up, not a word of truth to it.
And that a friend of mine and I found this and we only had one flashlight and one camera.
And so I did some of the walls and the corridors in this old abandoned facility.
And we've got a...
I think there's 12 works in all from this discovery thing, and we've picked a couple of them there.
Oh, I'm the only one who can take you on a complete tour of a facility that does not exist.
Well, find the website and you can find them all.
And that's just amazing.
I wish we had time to see even more, but we've got just a little bit of a sampling.
And I think you said you don't know exactly how many you've done, but the website itself probably has 700 or more.
Seven or 800.
Seven or 800 of those.
Just a few minutes we have left.
I know that you're not just...
What you do is obviously a physician for some 35 years here in the Brazos Valley.
You're into coin collecting, you're into astronomy.
I know that through your recommendation, you got me into super slow weight training.
So I've been doing it for three years.
Do we take our shirts off?
No, I don't think so.
That's why we're still training.
But you're into a lot of that too.
So you just, you don't ever rest, I guess, do you?
It keeps me off the streets.
It does keep you off the streets.
It really does.
And again, if you want to see Dr. Alexander's work, you can do it right now just through your computer by, like I said, the website is real long.
So just go to Google and you can type Philip Alexander and it'll be right there, Alexander Aviation Art, and it'll be right there.
And can I say one thing about the website?
It's managed by a friend of mine
who is a former B-29 pilot, former B-47 pilot in Minnesota and is probably 84 years old, but he manages this and it was through his efforts that he put all these on there.
He's done a great job.
Dr. Alexander, thank you, but we're out of time.
Hey, glad to be here.
I appreciate it.
You've seen just a portion of Dr. Alexander's amazing computer artwork.
His work is not just limited to military themes, and his hobbies are not just limited to artwork.
Like we said, he's into coin collecting, astronomy, weight training, music composition, and an amateur radio operator.
We thank Dr. Philip Alexander for letting us share his magnificent work.
I'm Tom Turbeville.
Join us next time on Veterans of the Valley.
.
In honor of the veterans who have served our country, both past and present, First National Bank proudly sponsors Veterans of the Valley.
Since 1862, First National has provided local decision-making and accessibility, as well as banking products and services to Brazos Valley citizens.
First National Bank.
First, always.
Dr. Philip Alexander pays his tribute to our veterans through his remarkable talent as an artist, a computer artist.
His artwork includes scenes from air, sea, land, and from his own imagination.
Dr. Alexander will share some of his favorite works with you.
I'm Tom Turbeville.
Join me and Dr. Philip Alexander for an incredible art show on Veterans of the Valley, Friday at 8.30, Saturday and Sunday at 6.30, right here on KAMU-TV.
Sounded good to me too.
Yeah.
Okay.
All right.
If anything, it might've been long, so I'll go a little bit quicker.
Okay, here we go.
Dr. Philip Alexander pays his tribute to our veterans through his remarkable talent as an artist, a computer artist.
His artwork includes scenes from air, sea, land,
and his own imagination.
Dr. Alexander will share some of his favorite works with you.
I'm Tom Turbeville.
Join me and Dr. Philip Alexander